[agent] Add FAQ on how to run the macOS Agent as a system service (#10817)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/faq/macos-agent-run-as-system-service.md

---

> title: How do I set up the Agent to run as a system service on MacOS?

Author: Indeed, I changed it to `macOS`. Our naming is kind of inconsistent in the documentation repo though, eg. https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blame/master/content/en/agent/faq/agent_v6_changes.md#L269

kind: faq
further_reading:
- link: "/agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about the Datadog Agent"
---

> On macOS, the Datadog Agent is installed as a user service (for the user that runs the install instructions). This allows the Datadog Agent GUI system tray application to work (while logged in to the macOS GUI as the user that performed the install), but the main drawback is that the Agent only runs when the user that performed the install is logged in using the macOS GUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On macOS, the Datadog Agent is installed as a user service for the user that runs the install instructions. This allows the Datadog Agent GUI system tray application to work, if you're logged in to the macOS GUI as the user that performed the install. The main drawback is that the Agent runs only when the user that performed the install is logged in using the macOS GUI.
```

> Because of this, by default the Datadog Agent doesn't run in cases where no GUI access to the macOS host is available. Additional steps are therefore required when installing & running the macOS Datadog Agent with no GUI access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, by default the Datadog Agent doesn't run in cases where no GUI access to the macOS host is available. Additional steps are therefore required when installing and running the macOS Datadog Agent with no GUI access.
```

## Install

1. Connect to the host and [follow the Agent installation instructions][1] to install the macOS Datadog Agent.

2. As the user that ran the install, execute the following bash script:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

# Move the per-user service definition installed by the Agent to a system service
sudo mv /Users/$USER/Library/LaunchAgents/com.datadoghq.agent.plist /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.datadoghq.agent.plist

echo "Setting the Datadog Agent service to run as the $USER user"
# By default, system services run as root.
# This plist file modification is needed to make the Agent not run as root, but as the current user.
sudo plutil -insert UserName -string "$USER" /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.datadoghq.agent.plist

echo "Setting permissions on the Datadog Agent service file"
# Put the correct permissions on the plist file.
# Otherwise launchctl will refuse running commands for this service.
sudo chown root:staff /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.datadoghq.agent.plist

echo "Enabling the Datadog Agent service"
# Enable the service: makes sure it runs on reboot
sudo launchctl enable system/com.datadoghq.agent

echo "Loading & launching the Datadog Agent service"
# Load the service: this starts the Agent
sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.datadoghq.agent.plist
```

This script reconfigures the Datadog Agent service to run as a launch daemon, with the following properties:

> - the service is automatically started when the host starts
> - the Agent processes run as the user that ran the above script (to avoid running as root)
> - the Datadog Agent GUI system tray application won't be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The service is automatically started when the host starts.
- The Agent processes run as the user that ran the above script (to avoid running as root).
- The Datadog Agent GUI system tray application is not available.
```

## Operations

> The Datadog Agent service is managed with `launchctl`. After the above installation instructions have been run you can manage the Agent service with the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent service is managed with `launchctl`. After the above installation instructions have been run, manage the Agent service with the following commands:
```

| Description                   | Command                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Start Agent service           | `sudo launchctl start com.datadoghq.agent`                                                                                |
| Stop Agent running service    | `sudo launchctl stop com.datadoghq.agent`                                                                                 |
| Status of Agent service       | `sudo launchctl list com.datadoghq.agent`                                                                                 |
| Disable Agent service         | `sudo launchctl disable system/com.datadoghq.agent`                                                                       |
| Enable Agent service          | `sudo launchctl enable system/com.datadoghq.agent && sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.datadoghq.agent.plist`|

> Disabling the Agent prevents the list / start / stop commands from working, and prevents the Agent service from being started on reboot. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disabling the Agent prevents the `list`, `start`, and `stop` commands from working, and prevents the Agent service from being started on reboot. 
```
